Hi, I'm trisha Barker and my near-death experience story was featured on
Annie's I survived Beyond him back season 1 episode 5
I was sandwiched in between two very lovely people who had heart attacks and had a near-death experience
that way I had a car wreck [and] I was a senior in college at the time and
this race
Was a symbol [Austan] 10k was a symbol of me getting my life back together
Stopping the partying and figuring out what I was going to do with the rest of my life
I was about to [graduate] with an English degree, but I did not want to teach I wanted to go into editing
Maybe law school down the line because I grew up poor wasn't interested in teaching and that's an important fact that features in the near-death
experience later
well
This wreck of it during the wreck. I'm broke three, Vertebrae
they're completely shattered and pieces of the bone fragments were pressing on my spine and I was
Beginning [to] lose feeling in my left leg I had a lot of internal injuries my right ankle was fractured as well
And I didn't have health insurance, so I wasn't given a painkiller or tylenol. They knew I needed surgery
I was just strapped to a board and left there screaming for hours sometimes other times. You know nurses would come and talk with me
Eventually I found a doctor who was willing to operate on me, but she had been on [duty] for 40 hours and Dr.
[Philon] was probably about my age now she went home
took him about the shower had some dinner rest, and then came back and operated on me and I
Was very grateful to sign this form that said?
[17%] chance of death, and I thought [ah] I'm young. I'm healthy you know signed it. I'll be fine
I mean, they just make you sign this right well the next thing I knew the
Anesthesiologist [put] the mask over me, and then I was out of my body [now] [at] the time
I was agnostic and so I was so shocked that the spirit goes on I wanted to pop back into my body and
Wake up, and tell all [my] friends. Hey, we do go on even if I had to die
I just wanted to come back and say we definitely go on I know
That much so that far into the near-death experience
I realized that then I was kind of looking around the room and I looked [down] in my body and
Surgery is brutal there was so much blood. Maybe my internal injuries were causing me to lose so much blood
[I] don't know but my back was open that part of my hip was opened up
And I was looking down at this kind of way from the top of the ceiling kind of a 360-degree
Vision and I could see the doctors and I could kind of I
Knew what they were thinking what they're doing and and you know the surgical techs were handing
Tools back and forth and then I saw the most amazing
beings, they are
Sometimes called higher beings by other writers I called them angels
I didn't have any other term they were just gorgeous and tall taller like seven eight feet and
they come to me immediately by sending this light from their eyes into my spirit body and
Immediately I felt calm that everything was going [to] be okay, and they said we're here with you don't worry
And then they said very clearly watch this and they wanted me to see that they could hit send this healing light
Through the surgeons, and they did this they sent this incredible light
through the surgeons and into my body
and I saw that the bone fragments would be picked out [of] my spine and [that] I would walk I would be fine and
Then I was meant to remember somehow that they could work through
Through people [now]. I I was pretty sure the doctors weren't aware of this, but they worked through them nonetheless
Then I noticed that the monitor flatlined and what [know] I'm dead
And I didn't know how they were going to revive me my back was already opened
I didn't know how much more blood I could possibly lose
And I didn't want to see that [seen] so it was out of that
Room and when your spirit body you just think and then you're outside the room so suddenly
I was no longer in [that] operating room, and I was in the corridor, and I ran into my stepdad
Now this is my verifiable incident um
Dr.. Jan Holden a few other researchers from ions are always curious about people that have verifiable incidents
But my mom and Stepdad were health meds at that time and I didn't think he would eat a candy bar
But [I] saw him getting this candy bar and later verified on that my mom saw him with the candy bar
Well, I kept going and then I was out side of the hospital, and it was nighttime
over Austin, and I have felt this oneness with everyone that I'd ever known but I
specifically zoned in on
People who I didn't get to [know] who were really lovely and I thought oh what a shame you know their hearts were so
Beautiful and for whatever reason I've been shy or closed off for judgmental
and I didn't take the time to get to know these [people] and the light wanted me to see that judgment and fear and and
Self-consciousness prevented me from knowing some really beautiful people these these uh people that I worked with that trans amigos were
Single moms some of them were just in the restaurant business, and I thought because I [was] a college [student]
I didn't have anything in [common] with them, but they were worried about me. They prayed for me
They wondered why I was depressed that I saw how gorgeous their hearts were and I thought
Okay, if I come back then I really need to open up to more people and see their hearts
And then I had this life review and the light was [not] an all judgmental
Anything that I've done to harm myself the light just felt sad [for] me and wish that I've been better to myself
But it didn't judge me. It didn't you have said it. I was bad in any way
It loved me so much
And it only wanted me to love myself
With that same love and I think that was a message that if love is all that [matters] and all that we take with us
You know from our interactions with others certainly?
part of that love needs to be towards ourselves
And so loving ourselves and taking care of ourselves is important and what the light wants what God wants
so I felt that love and then as
I was doing my life review I ended up at about five years old
and the spirit wanted me to see that I
had strong Faith
And I was very much in touch with nature as a child and that was [a] beautiful place to be and that
Was a lesson that I needed to bring back is the power of nature is an amazing thing and then the minute
I thought about that suddenly. I was in this otherworldly place, and the grass was so green the light was so bright and
It felt like heaven perhaps
But mostly I was at peace even greater peace and as I was walking through this grass
[I] wanted to come back and remind others to connect with nature that there's so much peace and
Beauty and joy that can be had in nature and that it's important to spend time peaceful time in nature
So as I was walking through this gorgeous field [I] came upon my grandfather
and he was the only person I knew at [that] [time] and
Who had died and he said?
Come on, Georgia get on this truck, [and] so I did that sometimes when I was a kid
I would sit in the back of a pickup truck
[my] feet would drag the ground and through this tall grass and so I did that
For a while, and [I] was happy and enjoying myself, and then he turned his head [back]
and he was like hey Trisha you want to keep going and
The light was out of up to the right and it was so beautiful
And it beckoned me
And I said definitely being this adventurous soul that I am I was like you know there
And so I was flying towards the light as I was flying towards the light I could feel different people's prayers
I could feel my mom's prayers my dad's prayers this my grandmother this one particular aunt
wanted
Me not to die because [she] had lost her daughter in a car wreck
[and] it was very painful for her and I could feel her praying to God saying please don't let Joyce's my mom's name
don't let Joyce go through the same thing that I went through and losing her daughter and
So I felt that I thought oh how sweet and I almost wanted to come back for [that]
But the light was so incredible I'd never felt any love like that. You know a [mom's] love romantic love
In comparison to that love it was the best feeling I've ever felt in my life so as I was going
Towards that light. I was whole and complete and happy
wanted for nothing [and]
I just felt disconnected from my life back there
I didn't want to go back and
Then suddenly the light said look down, and I saw this river and this river was beautiful
And it looked like a river life, you know many
Many miles of a flowing river and then there were all these tiny little lights
And I thought oh those are souls and their lights are turned on and I saw other souls that
You know not in this flow [that] were
covered by darkness in a sense and that too may look like fear from that point of [view] and
the light then showed me my own soul, and it had grown [very] large and
Full of light, especially since I was so close [to] this light
And it said that I needed to be a teacher and that all these little lights were my students
And I would help them turn on their lights and go out into the world and remember their soul
Remember their connection to nature let go of fear
embrace their passion live life to the fullest and believe that we do go on and that these bodies are just a
costume that we put on for [awhile] I
Didn't want to be a teacher. I argued for a moment, but there's no arguing with God
I'm God is your [guy's] guidance counselor. You're sent back, and so that was the last memory that [I] have is
being shown that I would be a teacher so [sent] back into my body and
The next thing I knew a nurse was feeding me ice chips and she asked do you remember your name?
And I said yes, I remember her name her name [is] Trisha
And I was so disappointed to be just me and my particular self and consciousness when I had once been
one with all this consciousness and intelligence and amazing
Possibilities outside of my body, but I still had the memory [of] angels and and the memory of God
And how great it felt to be in that place?
So you know flash-forward hears later?
I did get my teaching certification when went back to Austin I did heal rather well ran the Austin 10k and
the very next year and I
Got my teaching certification the next year after that
I taught English in Korea on the East Coast and herlands
In San antonio [in] [Dallas] and in fort worth and [I've] had an amazing time working with students
Teaching has been such a blessing I would not have picked it for myself. I
Have felt free and happy and guided many times in the classroom
And I think sometimes I'm lucky enough to feel those angels working through me
Maybe not for everyone but for certain people perhaps who need it who [are] in desperate need of health
I have felt guidance from the other side and in those moments
I [remember] the angels who work through my surgeons, and I know that I was meant to see that for a
particular reason and I
Have loved every minute of it. My story was also featured in National Geographic this spring in
2016 and when I told my story to the researcher I realized it was time that I write it
So I started writing my memoir which features a lot of my life after the near-death experience because I think the after-effects are pretty
important and interesting a lot of
People who are in the ears come from this place of love and alterations touristic?
feelings for everyone and
Sometimes they're a little bit childlike and they can be taken advantage of by by different people
and I was you know very young in my 20s and early 20s then and you know I had a
man who was in [a] writers group and who was sexually harassing to me and
It was a friend that I knew on some level
But he was a very sick guy and that I had a stalker, and I had many things in my life [that]
shipped me up and made me wonder about people and
their perspective
But [I] think the point of all of that is to stay in this place of light and no matter what happens
[I] am [not] this body. [I] am so much more. I know that and the near-death
has changed my life for the [better] and
I
Can't wait to tell my full story through this book so thanks for listening to my video and may you be blessed